# NS-2 network simulator
# Install NS-2 - directions - http: //www.howtoforge.com/tutorial/ns2-network-simulator-on-ubuntu-14.04/.

# A Simple MAC - NS-2 comes with a few example files. We will use one of these files as the basis of our code. The file location:  ns-allinone-2.35/ns-2.35/tcl/ex/wireless-simple-mac.tcl.

# To Execute tcl file, use command:  $ ns yourfilename.tcl
# On execution of this "TCL" file, two files are created. 
  1. Trace File (.tr) - This file contains all the trace generated by the configured nodes in NS2 by the simulator. A Parse        file is developed (generally in AWK or Python) to analyse the data from Trace file. 
  2. Nam File (.nam) - This file is used to have a graphical view of the configured Nodes and their relative movments as            directed in the TCL file. Can be executed with - nam filename.nam

# This project contains Four Scenario's and each senario has different requirements.  
# Note : Turn off the -agentTrace and -routerTrace from the node configuration.

# Here in this project the Parse file is created in Python.
# The basic parse file extracts the following data from the Trace file:
  1. Count the total number of bits sent by each user.
  2. Count the total number of bits received by each user
  3. Count the total number of packets dropped.
  4. Calculate throughput of each user.
  5. Calculate network throughput.

# SCENARIO 1: 
  Make the following change to the TCL file: 
  1. Add a new user that will be transmitting data to the receiver at the same rate of the other transmitter; make the              new user start from a different location and make it move towards the receiver.
     Calculation: Compare new throughput with earlier calculation.

* Change the MAC to the 802.11 MAC .


# SCENARIO 2: 
  Make the following changes to the previous TCL file: 
  1. Change the MAC layer to the 802.11 layer included in NS-2. 
  2. Make sure the two transmitters have the same rate of transmission.
 
  Calculation:
    1. How does the throughput of the two transmitters compare from their throughputs in Scenario 1?
    2. How does the total network throughput compare with the total network throughput in Scenario 1?
      
# SCENARIO 3: 
  Make the following changes to your previous tcl file: 
  1. Turn of the RTS/CTS mechanism of 802.11.
  
  Calculation:
    1. How does the throughput of the two transmitters compare from their throughputs in
       Scenario 2?
    2. How does the total network throughput compare with the total network throughput
       in Scenario 2?
    3. Looking at your trace analysis, what is the major effect RTS/CTS has on the network?
    
# SCENARIO 4: 
  1. Go back to your file for Scenario 2 and Run the tasks for files with 10 and 100 users. 
  
  Calculation:
    1. Plot the total network rate for the network with 2, 10, and 100 users. 
    2. Also plot the average user throughput for the network with 2, 10, and 100 users using any software like, Python,            MATLAB, Excel, etc.
